---
layout:     post
title:      Faisst 2016
date:       2016-02-04 00:00:00
published:  February 2016
summary:    'A Coherent Study of Emission Lines from Broad-Band Photometry: Specific Star-Formation Rates and [OIII]/Hβ Ratio at 3 < Z < 6'
paper:      'http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.07173v1'
categories: astrophysics
image:      /images/Faisst2016.png
raw_image:  /images/raw/Faisst2016.png
---

*Abstract*: We measure the Hα and [OIII] emission line properties as well as specific star-formation rates (sSFR) of spectroscopically confirmed 3<z<6 galaxies in COSMOS from their observed colors vs. redshift evolution. Our model describes consistently the ensemble of galaxies including intrinsic properties (age, metallicity, star-formation history), dust-attenuation, and optical emission lines. We forward-model the measured Hα equivalent-widths (EW) to obtain the sSFR out to z~6 without stellar mass fitting. We find a strongly increasing rest-frame Hα EW that is flattening off above z~2.5 with average EWs of 300-600A at z~6. The sSFR is increasing proportional to (1+z)^2.4 at z<2.2 and (1+z)^1.5 at higher redshifts, indicative of a fast mass build-up in high-z galaxies within e-folding times of 100-200Myr at z~6. The redshift evolution at z>3 cannot be fully explained in a picture of cold accretion driven growth. We find a progressively increasing [OIII]λ5007/Hβ ratio out to z~6, consistent with the ratios in local galaxies selected by increasing Hα EW (i.e., sSFR). This demonstrates the potential of using "local high-z analogs" to investigate the spectroscopic properties and relations of galaxies in the re-ionization epoch.

*Figure Caption*: Mean rest-frame EW(Hα) as a function of redshift. Our results in the three different redshift windows are shown in blue (1.0 < z < 2.9), green (1.0 < z < 4.0), and red (3.0 < z < 6.0). The different bands show the four combinations of metallicity and SFHs for each window (see text). The colored points show the redshifts where the Hα line is directly accessible. The red squares show the same for a sample based on photometric redshifts at z > 3. The symbols (see legend) show different studies measuring EW(Hα) directly from spectra (Erb et al. 2006; Lamareille et al. 2009; Fumagalli et al. 2012; Silverman et al., submitted) or from observed color or SED fitting (Shim et al. 2011; Schenker et al. 2013; Stark et al. 2013; Rasappu et al. 2015; Marmol-Queralto et al. 2015; Smit et al. 2015a). To homogenize the results, we apply a constant factor of 15% (5%) to the literature measurements to correct for the [N II] and [S II] ([N II] only) emission lines where necessary.
