---
layout:     post
title:      Brewer 2016
date:       2016-01-19 00:00:00
published:  January 2016
summary:    'Determining the Age of the Kepler Open Cluster NGC 6819 With a New Triple System and Other Eclipsing Binary Stars'
paper:      'http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.04069v1'
categories: astrophysics
image:      /images/Brewer2016.png
raw_image:  /images/raw/Brewer2016.png
---

This paper studies a nearby eclipsing binary system. A binary is a system of two nearby stars that orbit each other, and an eclipsing binary is just the chance alignment of their orbits so that each star passes in front of the other as viewed from the Earth. The motion of binary star systems as they orbit each other allows precise measurements of the masses of the stars, and these masses can be used to infer other characteristics such as the temperature and radius of the stars. This system actually includes another star orbiting around the binary system at a greater distance, making this a triple system of stars. The authors assume that the stars formed together, and use the masses to determine the age of the entire cluster of stars that they reside in, approximately 2.4 billion years.

The plot shows how the measured light from the system decreases as the eclipse takes place. The top row shows observations from the *Kepler* telescope, and each subsequent row shows ground based observations at different wavelengths. The primary eclipse, where the star that emits more light for its size is eclipsed, results in a deeper fall in the light output, and is shown in the first column. The second column shows the secondary eclipse, where the dimmer star for its size passes behind the brighter one.
